Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the Senate Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee,
after many days of stormy hearings, voted last week by a narrow margin of one vote to confirm
Louis L. Strauss, a Secretary of Commerce.
I expect the final vote on him to come up on the Senate floor this week and to be rather
close.
I have opposed Admiral Strauss because I feel that his part in the infamous Dixon Yates
power case throws a serious cloud over his suitability for the post he seeks, or for any other
post in our government where he will be responsible for the people's business.
Admiral Strauss still evades the questions asked by me and other senators in that hearing.
The Justice Department still refuses to investigate.
While his part in the sculled agree of the Dixon Yates message cleared up, I say he
is not fit to hold the position of Secretary of Commerce in our government.
A conflict of interest calls the cancellation of that power contract, and the government
is defending his suit on these very same grounds.
Admiral Strauss has achieved promoter and defender of the Dixon Yates contract, claimed he knew
nothing of this conflict of interest, and yet he was working with the man who was involved
in it, and knew all about the contract from the beginning to end.
Yet he was working right where they represent it of private industry, who was also working
with the, and as an employee of the Bureau of the Budget during the time this contract
was being negotiated.
If Admiral Strauss knew nothing about this, he has no business handling the public's business.
If he did not, then he is not qualified to hold any such responsible post.
I will not vote for him as long as these questions about him are not answered.
And now to other matters, as a member of the Interior Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee,
I had the privilege this week of urging on behalf of Senator Gore and myself an additional
$240,000 to provide 200 more campsites in the Smoky Mountain National Park.
I also did this on behalf of the Smoky Mountain National Park Commission and Herbides
Walters of Maristown, its chairman.
Conrad Worth, the Director of the National Park Service, backed this request wholeheartedly.
More than 3 million people visited our park last year.
This is more than twice as many as visited any of our other national parks.
And yet it should be pointed out that some of the other national parks receiving appropriations
two or three times more than the Smoky Mountain National Park.
I don't fuss about this because I know they need the funds.
But I do think our park has been somewhat neglected by way of facilities.
And I'm anxious to see that this is remedied.
Already this year, campground use and the Smoky Mountain National Park is up 12% over last year.
If the additional appropriation is granted and I feel confident it will be,
it will mean that 160,000 more persons will find a place to pitch their tent
in the Smoky Mountain National Park and can be taken care of at present.
Our park is primarily a hikers and campers park, more so than any other in the nation.
And campers are knocking at the gates right now.
And there's not enough campsites to accommodate them.
These new sites are seriously needed to ease the situation.
And I think I should point out that the interior department for the national parks
is getting less than it did last year.
The house has cut the amount that it would get.
So that this doesn't run over the pest and it's budget and is not a excessive amount.
And I feel it is very highly justified.
And another thing, just as I'm making this broadcast,
is that it is considering a new price support formula for the tobacco growers of our nation.
And all of the tobacco people and producers in Tennessee are very much interested
in keeping the program about like it is at the present time.
Of course, Mr. Benson would like to have flexible price support so he could reduce him down
to nothing if necessary.
But the tobacco is one industry where we've had a successful operation
where there have not been big surfaces where it's pitted its own way.
And this compares a very favorably with the difficulty we have had in other agricultural
products.
So I expect to support this legislation and keep the tobacco program
as near like it is now as possible.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee,
the Atlantic Congress, which will begin its sessions in London on June 5 in just a few days,
will I believe be one of the most important meetings looking toward Atlantic unity
and toward peace in the world and toward having a common front among freedom-loving people
and holding our own against communism that will has ever been held.
This Congress is modeled after the Hague Conference of 1948,
from which resulted the Council of Europe, the common market in Europe,
the steel in iron community and many other things.
We have a privilege, incidentally delegates from all of the 15 NATO countries will be there.
They've been busily making arrangements, writing papers, talking about a agenda,
making plans to make this a very, very useful Congress for five or six days.
The Executive Director of the United States Committee for the Atlantic Congress
was my former administrative assistant, Richard J. Wallace.
He took a leave of absence in order to be the Executive Director of this Committee,
and he's worked very successfully at it, and I think a great deal of the success
of the Congress and certainly of our American group will be due to the leadership in the effort of Dick Wallace.
Dick, I'm glad to have you here to talk with our friends in Tennessee.
Well, thank you, Santa.
Santa is certainly good to be here, let you.
Tell us some of the details and fill us in on what we're going to do in this Atlantic.
Well, Santa, you know you started, at least, two years ago at the NATO Parliament Terrence Congress.
And I'm not a stupid prohibitive me from saying too much about that.
Some people have called it a sort of summit conference of citizens.
And in a rate of resolution was passed by the NATO Parliament Terrence Congress came out of
your committee, it was your proposal that there be an Atlantic Congress issue,
bringing together representatives of all the 15 NATO nations.
To discuss not only what has happened in NATO in its first 10 years of existence,
but what ought to happen in the Atlantic community for the future, what the future looks like.
As you mentioned, there have been organizations underway.
Now we're the one in the United States, the United States Committee,
but there's some organizations in every other NATO nation.
They've all been making studies, plans for the Congress, and selecting delegates,
the real outstanding leaders of the whole Western world will be President and the Congress.
And I believe the Queen's going to open the Congress.
The Queen opens the Congress on June 5th in Westminster Hall.
And the closing session is on June 9th at which time there'll be such people as a Prime Minister,
Mr. Spark, Mr. Harvard, Lange, Belgium, various heads of government as well as citizens,
which shows importance of the government's attached to this, all the way to this,
a non-official gathering.
I think we have you have three pages of papers that have been prepared,
and ideas that will be developed at this Atlantic Congress.
Perhaps you'd summarize some of them.
One I've been interested in at the American Bar Association has been interested in trying to have
established the idea of peace by law.
And Charlie Ryan, the former President, is a delegate and he is proposing a NATO court of justice
to settle arguments between the NATO countries. Is that one?
That's one.
On the ranch, proposal also a citizen of the NATO countries could bring a case.
For instance, he points out that the fisheries case could very well been settled by us.
Excellent.
That's the Iceland-Munbrettens fisheries dispute.
Other proposals are the Atlantic Institute, which would set up a continuing study by for the whole
Atlantic Community and Economic Council that could poo some of the work of the NATO nations
in undeveloped areas and cost less for each one of the nations together and probably do a
better overall job. But all these things will be discussed at the Congress.
And then we want to have a work out methods of better consultation and having a higher status
for the members of the NATO Council and many other things. And if we can bring about
a real working arrangements between these nations,
a crew chef in the communists might be less apt to throw us into wars.
And today certainly might.
Well, I hope to be there and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this is Charlie Calderall, Senator Keith Orders,
administrative assistant. I've been trying to hold the fort while the senator was in London at
the Atlantic Congress and we're glad to have him back. Well, thank you, Charlie. I certainly
am glad to get back and I wanted to report it very briefly, but you asked me questions as well.
I'd like to align out what you thought the net result of the Congress was.
Well, first let me tell a little something about the Congress. And I think it's really one of the great
historic, uh, congresses or meetings that I have ever attended. This is of course the 10th
anniversary of our North Atlantic treaty organization, which is an agreement between 15 nations of
North Atlantic to stand together militarily. Then Article 2 of the treaty provides that we try to
work together economically and politically also. Well, Charlie, during the 10 years, uh,
NATO has worked very well militarily, although we have had some difficulties as we're having a
difficulty with France right now with reference to location of a atomic basis.
But anyway, the North Atlantic treaty organization has saved the freedom of Europe and has stopped
the communists from any military aggression. But during this time, it's been increasingly clear
that conditions in the world are changing with the coming end of cruise chef and is a cold economic
war. His attempt to win to him, the uncommitted people of the world, to try to divide the NATO nations.
It's been quite apparent that we had to help more than just a military alliance.
Was the, uh, uh, the congresses, I understand it was represented by all the countries, by
citizens, citizens of the countries who, uh, were there at their own expense. The meeting was
opened by Queen Elizabeth in the Westminster Hall, where she made a very fine speech and then
Prime Minister Harold McMillan of England responded. Then after that, it was divided into five
committees, where people earnestly diagnosed what needed to be done in the North Atlantic community
in order to have more strength. We've had military people meeting, we've had parliamentarians
meeting, but this was the first time that the average citizen was given a chance. There was the
spiritual and cultural committee, the political committee and military committee committee
dealing with, uh, how NATO should deal with the communist bloc and then how NATO should deal with
the uncommitted world. We, uh, had their chowly all of the NATO ambassadors. We had Mr. Spock,
we had General Narsdad, we had Admiral Wright and the leaders from all of the European nations
were tremendously interested. I've never seen people work so hard in my life. Well, here are some
of the accomplishments the declaration was made by, uh, committee by Eric Johnson, the President
of our group and by Paul Van Sealen, the former Prime Minister of Belgium. We, uh, there was
the term in that, uh, NATO in the first place militarily that the nation should come up to their
commitments and that we should have an overall NATO command. It was decided to institute with private
contributions, a North Atlantic institute to inform the people about the community of interests.
We have a, uh, who has decided to make the NATO Apollimentarians Association an official
organ of NATO so that we can have some political discussion. We decided to call on the member
governments to set up a small conference or commission of a citizens to study at greater
length ways and means where the common unity and cooperation should be increased and report
back to their governments. We passed a resolution applauding the position of the West in connection
with protecting the freedom of the people of West Berlin. It was, uh, decided that there should be
closer adherents to the report of the three wise men in consultation about all, uh, political
matters and that we ought to jointly work upon our efforts to furnish, uh, assistance and technical
guidance and, uh, leadership to the people in the uncommitted nation. So that's the so
wide range of leaders. I'm not sure, but I think the clock has caught up with us. Uh, we'll be back
next week with senators report. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, let me pause today and lay aside the issues
and the problems of the Senate for a moment. This is a season when hundreds of our young people
in Tennessee and all over the nation are leaving behind them the golden days of high school or of
college. This is the time when the dreams of youth must be translated at last into the accomplishments
of life. This is the time when a parent sees in the shining face of his child that this young one
is no longer really a child, but a man or a woman now facing the challenge of a vigorous and competitive
world. Out of the dreams of young men and women come their raw materials for building a life
with meaning and with substance. This is your challenge. It is a challenge of many faces.
You will see it in the hand of a small child someday when it reaches to you for strength and guidance.
You will see it in the hard holes of commerce. Hear it in the courts of law and find it across
the bargaining table. You will see it in your church and your civic club and perhaps even reach it
in the empty void of space on the way to the moon before your life time has run its course.
Theodore Roosevelt once remarked that life was a great adventure and that the worst of all fears
was the fear of living. Well, I have seen no fear in the faces or words of the young graduates I
have addressed in the past month in Tennessee. And as a matter of fact, I also had the privilege of
delivering the graduating address when my daughter Linda graduated here in high school in Washington.
And I just thought as I saw all of these wonderful children graduating in high schools in Tennessee,
what a great thing it would be if we could see to it that they all had opportunities in business and
farming and industry in the volunteer state and not have to send them out of the some other state
to have an opportunity. This is incidentally as a great challenge to us grown-ups to do everything
we can to see that this is possible. Rather than the faces and the words of these young people,
I have seen only confidence and a determination to conquer the economic, social, and political and
cultural challenges of a most difficult era. If there is anything I can tell you that may help
your natural armor reflect the warmth and the light of the sun, it might be this. Make your first
mistakes your stepping stones to success, not pitfalls of disaster. You won't be alone whichever way
you walk. Make your government at the local, state, and national level your direct concern.
The only time politics becomes a nasty word is when citizens turn their backs on it. Work for
good government and then you will get good government. Make your own decisions. Advice such as mine
may be of value, but you are the one who will live with your life. Design it for happiness and
around the contribution you can make to society and to your fellow men. Make no place for cynics or
profits of doom. They will tell you that the splitting of the atom has made your world a mockery,
that your efforts for peace and mankind are in vain. Health faith in yourself, in your people,
and in your country. This is your time in history. You can make it or break it. And with it all,
may God bless you as you meet the hours and the days and the years of your life which laugh
hit. I know you will ask for his guidance. Use it to direct your steps as you meet the thrilling
challenges that are yours and yours alone. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, as I make this broadcast year for Washington,
the United States Senate is still debating the appointment of Lewis L. Strauss to the
Post of Secretary of Commerce. Earlier this week, I delivered a lengthy address on this issue
on the floor of the Senate. My task was not a happy one. I was compelled to put aside my natural
inclination to support the President of the United States and the executive nomination.
My sincerity in saying this is borne out by the fact that in the last six and a half years of
this administration, many thousands, hundreds of thousands of executive nominations,
which have come before the Senate, I have supported all but a very few, three I believe.
And I believe that history has supported the stand I took in those instances.
Those who have been pushing the confirmation of Mr. Strauss have sought to divert attention from
the real issue. The issue is not simply public power versus private power. It is not presidential prestige.
It is not the patriotism of one man as compared to the patriotism of other men.
Nor is it by any, by the wildest stretch of the imagination and issue of religion.
The true issue is, in my opinion, that Louis L Strauss is unfit to hold the important
post of Secretary of Commerce, because he has consistently and cynically sought to deceive
the American people. I experienced this trait in Mr. Strauss at first hand during the lengthy
hearings on the notorious Dixonates contract. The facts developed in the antitrust subcommittee hearings
revealed a disgraceful attempt by the big finance and power interest to destroy the Tennessee
Valley Authority. These facts pointed a finger directly at Louis L Strauss. He could not have failed
to know of the conflict of interest, which finally led to the cancellation of the Dixonates contract.
When Mr. Strauss came before the interstate and foreign commerce committee recently,
these facts were brought out again, and again Mr. Strauss sought to twist out from under them.
He implied half-truths and misstatements. The senators on this committee who voted unfavorably
on reporting his confirmation cited seven specific instances in which Louis L Strauss
sought to deceive the committee in the course of the very hearings on his fitness to hold the
post of Secretary of Commerce. These are the seven findings of the senators. One, he flatly
misrepresented to the committee his responsibility for rejecting an application for a license to
export steel pipe. Second, he falsely denied making its statement for a subcommittee of the House
appropriations committee. Three, he distorted the nature of a charge brought against him by Senator
Anderson concerning the export of ISIL tones. Fourth, in dealing with charges that he had failed to
keep the joint committee on atomic energy properly informed, Louis Strauss sought to distort the record.
And fifth, Louis L Strauss denied knowledge of the conflict of interest in the Dixonates contract
and attempted to hide it. And I will have more to say about this later if I have time.
And six, he falsely sought to create the impression that he had no connection with the ill-advised
actions of the AEC. Seven, he denied that he had ever sought material against a hostile witness
and was later confronted with an official letter showing that he had sought and received this
material. Well, against this most recent backdrop of deception, the long record of hearings and
innovations in the Dixonates Yates case stand out in starking clarity today. The chain of events
shows beyond the shadow of a doubt that Louis L Strauss must have known of the conflict of interest
that infected the entire Dixonates deal from its very beginning, which the Department of Justice
of Justice now conceives. Everyone around him and their atomic energy commission and the Bureau
of the Budget knew of it. It could not escape to him. When I placed this chain of facts alongside
the half facts and misstatements charged to Louis L Strauss by the Senators of the Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee who opposed his nomination, I could come to only one honest conclusion.
My conclusion was that Louis L Strauss has continually sought to deceive the American people.
In the face of this overwhelming proof, I simply cannot vote for his confirmation. Thank you
and that's all for this time.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, President Eisenhower at his press conference last week
in talking about the labor management dispute in the steel industry,
said that he wished he had a fact sheet about the labor management battle that is now going on.
The Antitrust and Monopoly Subcommittee of which I am chairman has obtained many facts about
this vital industry over more than two years of difficult hearings. I have gathered together
those particular facts which I think are most relevant to the issues raised by the present
labor management dispute in the steel industry. And I agree with the President that it would be
well to make as much information about this public as possible. And I'm glad to send such
information as I have to the President. And I would like to report the primary facts that we
have been able to obtain to you here today on the subject of wages and productivity in the steel
industry. Wages in terms of average hourly earnings are somewhat higher in the steel industry than
in any other American manufacturing industry with the exception of flat glass. Despite a short
decline in steel operating rate from 85 percent in 1957 to only 61 percent in 1958,
man-hour productivity measured on the basis of hours paid showed only a 3.2 percent decline.
While based on hours worked it remained virtually unchanged. It would thus appear that
improvements in efficiency were of sufficient magnitude to offset the decrease in productivity
resulting from the lower levels of output. Now on the subject of cost and prices in the steel
industry, the increase in steel prices in 1957 was about twice the amount of the increase in cost
resulting from the wage adjustments call for in the contract between the steel companies and the
United Steel Workers. Profits for the industry have generally been sufficient to enable the major
steel companies to finance most of their expansion since World War II out of retained earnings.
They have made little use of the vast amount of savings in the hands of the investing public
as a source of funds to finance finance plant expansion and improvement. It is a consumer
through the prices which he pays that has financed most of the industry's capital improvements.
What are some of the results? Instead of being just a part of the general inflationary movement,
the price advance in steel since World War II has been substantially greater than that of the
rest of the economy. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the finished steel price increase
was greater than any of the BLS wholesale commodity groups from 47 to 58, from 53 to 58,
and from 56 to 58. The increase in the price of finished steel was approximately four times
greater than the increase in the all commodity index from 1947 to 58. What is all this
costing the people of the United States? The cost of direct bars of steel of the price
between the second half of 55 and 1958 has been more than five billion dollars.
This is without allowing for the pure-mitting which takes place between the direct buyer and the
ultimate consumer. As we all know, when steel gets to the consumer in the form of everything from
bobby pins to automobiles, the price increases have been multiplied several times.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have reported to you only a few of the cold-hard facts about the price of steel.
By the time you hear these words, the contract between the steel workers and the steel industry
will have passed. Whether a strike is in progress at this moment or not, the facts behind this
dispute are still significant and important. If making them available to the public serves to help,
the steel industry solve these problems, then I am glad to have been able to present them.
And let me say that I think that there is enough in this picture so that some concessions
can be made both on the side of management and of the steel workers to enable them to get
together on a contract which would avoid a strike and a fuller spiral in the inflationary
period that we have been going through. I certainly hope that that will be the case.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
Last year, as you will remember, the Senate passed a good and workable self-financing bill
for the Tennessee Valley Authority. We haven't had any appropriations for any new starts and
major construction in the TVA since the Eisenhower administration came to office in 1953.
The president himself recommended that in lieu of appropriations, we be given the right to finance
ourselves in Safari's power operations and construction are concerned. The House began renewed
consideration of the bill week before last. The private power lobby was out in force and conducted
a vigorous campaign against it. Then this week, the House Rules Committee met and voted to deny
the TVA a rule for consideration of the bill. This means that unless the Rules Committee
reconsideres and I earnestly hope it will, it would take a two-thirds vote to even bring the bill
up on the floor for debate. I'm heart sick over this action in the House, but I'm not giving
willing to give up until the last whistle is blown on this Congress. Right now, we don't have a
two-thirds vote in favor of anything for the TVA and the House. We only had two votes in our
favor on the Rules Committee, but I think the Rules Committee may have completely not have
completely understood the issue and therefore may reconsider. The tactics of the private
power lobby, however, should now be clear for anyone to see. For years, they complained about the
TVA getting appropriations, but it's clear now that they really weren't worried about those
appropriations, which the TVA has always repaid on schedule with a handsome return to the government.
For now, they are clearly on the record as wanting to denounce even the right to finance ourselves.
They are recklessly willing to jeopardize the investment that the government already has
in the TVA and the future of an entire region just to satisfy their own selfish weight.
They simply want to kill the TVA as is simple as that. And then with the example of TVA gone,
they want to run away with their own prices. They want again the unfettered chance to gouge the
consumer. The greed of the private power lobby has brought it to grief before. And I predict that
with this example reminiscent as it is of the old ensue days, the private power lobby is headed
for grief again. It just doesn't know the meaning of the philosophy of live and let live.
The House Rules Committee dealt a serious and perhaps mortal blow to two other good and worthwhile
pieces of legislation this week. One of these was the Farm Bill. And I hope that they will reconsider
that also. The House tried desperately to overrule its rules committee on the bill. And while there
was a clear majority vote in favor of such action, the bill failed to get the necessary two thirds vote.
As you know, I supported and worked for this Farm Bill in the Senate and it passed in the Senate.
The House Agricultural Committee reported it out in substantially the same form by unanimous vote.
The Rules Committee decided to use its veto. This is serious in that it means unless the bill is
pried out of the House, there will be a cut in cotton acreage. It also means that the small farmer will
get a further cut and some of them can't hardly survive as it is. And it delays the day when cotton
will become competitive on the world market. Finally, there's the community facilities bill that
I sponsored along with Senator Fulbright in the Senate. It passed the Senate. This bill would have
made it possible for communities, utility districts, cities and school boards to finance local public
works programs at low interest rates and over a long period of years. It would have been a great
help to the economy and to giving people jobs. I can't remember anything which has creative
so much interest among the local officials of Tennessee. I have letters from many, many mayors,
county judges and others outlining much needed work that they would do under this program.
But again, the House Rules Committee denied it a rule. All I can say is that we will try again next year.
There are often disappointments in this business of legislation. You work awfully hard for
something and then see it lost. But the only thing to do is to keep trying. I often think of the
late Senator George Norris. He tried for years to establish the TBA only to fail repeatedly.
Then finally, he had the satisfaction of seeing his dream become the greatest example of democracy
and action in the world. We must never give up. Thank you and goodbye until next week.